I would like to present my case, If I may,
I'll let this sit on the screen for
just bordering on what becomes an almost
uncomfortable amount of time that doesn't
feels like putting a cut in, but
just long enough for dramatic pause.
Does anyone see what the problem is?
So Justin, so
he's about to hit the button, all right.
On the fly, at the very last minute,
we're taking these two things and
we're putting them in a brand new object.
That brand new object, it's not
the same object as it was last time.
Items might be the same,
dispatch might be the same, right?
But this object is brand new,
which invalidates all of
those checks in React.memo.
And some things just care about dispatch,
right?
Before items, by themselves, they're like,
yo, if I'm getting the same item I got
last time, even if the list is all new,
I'm good, I'm cool.
Dispatch is the same,
getting the same item, right?
But here, technically, it is pulling
dispatch off of a brand new object, right?
The ES6 syntax hides it from us, but
the rules are being followed once again,
right?
All of the initial rules that we set
up in the very beginning are true, and
we just opted out of everything.
While also still having
those React.memo checks, and
they're doing nothing now, right?
They're useless,
they might as well take them out.
So, does anyone have hypotheses
on how we would solve this, Alex.
>> We just create object ones above
return, destructure in there and
then just pass the dot reference?
>> But the problem is, items will change.
So we'll have to make
a new one every time.
Dustin.
>> Memoize provider value?
>> Memoize provider value,
but then I might get an old,
but that'll get broken
by the items changing.
And even for the individual item
that only cared about poor dispatch.
Dustin, well, I think you're
reading from the chat room, but
you're gonna get credit because I-
>> Two contexts?
>> Yes, so one context caused our problem,
do you know how we solve it?
I heard you like contexts.
So I put context in your context.
Why didn't I make that meme and
have it on a slide ready to go?
One context created our problem,
two contexts is our way out, right?
Cuz we don't mind things
rerendering when things change,
that is what is React is supposed to do.
That's why it is rerendering,
because things change, that it has to put.
Rerenderings are not bad in and
of themselves,
they're just bad when we don't want them.
So things like the items list
changing when the items change.
Okay, right on, the items changed,
please show that in the UI to me, love it.
The things that just rely on dispatch,
well, that seems silly.
So yes, the answer to all
the problems that one context solved,
it's two contexts.
One for the things that change, and one
for the things that don't change, right?
If that hurts your feelings,
that's good, yeah, that's valid.
>> So by then, we will need to wrap each
individual component with the context
that the one that changes to
prevent the same thing, or no?
>> Well, so we already have this
abstraction here that is taking one
context and wrapping children,
which is the whole application.
And are you all familiar
with the turducken, right?
We can just keep it's a turkey,
a duck, and a chicken, all in one dish.
And what we can do is basically
take the same approach, And
try some dark move like this.
I don't even know what
they name stuff anymore.
ActionContext, cool, cool, cool.
Now for the items,
That's just gonna be passing through.
And then what we do,
This is now a static value
that is never gonna change.
Right, and so now the important
tasting note that I wanna call
out is the order is important, right?
Because all parents trigger
rerenders on their children, right?
So we're gonna put the one
that doesn't change,
Outside of the one that does change.
That's the same way that we
pushed down the changes earlier.
We're doing that here now, effectively,
which is the one that doesn't change is
going to be inside of
the one that does change.
Yeah, could you memoize them?
Yes, I can, I don't want to, right?
That doing stuff as fast
as I'm doing stuff.
So we've got those in place.
And now I have two, so
now instead of useContext,
if you need the items,
you use the ItemsContext.
And if you need the actions,
you use the ActionsContext, right?
And let's try it out, and
we'll go into the individual item.
Now we should be able to just
swap this one out, at least.
And pull that in.
What you're mad about?
I mean, there's plenty to be mad about.
Header's mad, I don't really care.
Cuz they're pulling on,
they're deconstructing object before, so
I can't just change it in one place,
that makes sense.
This is now just pulling
out the regular old items.
And did I see, only other place, yeah.
Dispatch is not a function, I left
also the deconstructing here as well.
The express purpose was not to
make new objects, so lets falter.
And you look,
all of my performance gains are back,
but at what cost, right?
We can make it a little bit better, right?
I have a rule, which is,
sometimes we have to do bad things.
And what do we do when we do bad things?
We cover them up, [LAUGH] right?
If you do bad thing in your code base and
you cover it up, it's okay.
I have bad news for you,
there's electrons going through
copper wires in this thing, right?
This is all [LAUGH] built on top of
a pile of lies and obstructions, so
obstructions are just lies, right?
And so that's what's happening here,
it's just complexity of electrons,
I don't even know how Wi-Fi works,
honestly.
So all of that, and so what I would do in
this case, if that hurts your feelings,
you need two different contexts, and
then have to keep track of this.
And if you have a suspicion that
this is going to get out of hand,
of course it is, [LAUGH] right?
It's absolutely gonna get out of hand.
So what I do usually, and
I would highly recommend this, and
where you put it, I don't really care.
Which is, you cover the bad
thing that you did up, right?
UseItems, And useItems is great.
useItems is gonna do useContext,
it's gonna take the ItemsContext,
Return those items, and we'll export this.
And then we'll go ahead and say,
The records show that I can type,
it's just I don't normally stand and
work like this for
several hours in front of people.
So here we'll say, const dispatch.
= useContext, that ActionsContext.
Let's say we can do all that,
that should do the trick.
I don't need to wrap this one to use
callback cuz it is the same value.
Just doing that might make me feel good,
but it should be the same value,
no matter what.
And so, to say make sure this is the same
value when it's already the same value,
is not doing anyone any favors.
This one,
I'm a little more on the fence about.
Because it's almost always gonna
change if it ever gets called,
it's like the opposite problem.
This will always be the same.
And this one is the literal only
[LAUGH] business logic thing in my app.
So I could wrap it, and
it will always get invalidated, right?
Like two sides of the same coin.
And so now,
I can go inside my application,
and we'll swap this out.
This is not a performance
talk anymore at this moment.
This is simply hiding the stuff you did
in the name of performance from yourself.
Right, and so now we've got that in place,
and now in the individual item.
Did I export the second one?
>> I think was useDispatch.
>> useDispatch, no.
[LAUGH] That means the thing.
There's a reason why I should do that,
that's smart, I should do that.
The literal words that I was about to say.
The nice thing about doing this
is that if you ever decide,
the question before is like, at what point
do I go from useReducer to Redux, right?
Now that I've given myself these
abstractions and these hooks,
whenever I want.
Cuz I would just change one file and
get all the new ones.
This way used to especially be good, cuz
React Redux has that useDispatch thing.
And it gives you a dispatch, that would
have been smart, I should have done that.
And now it doesn't take an argument,
or if it does, it ignores it.
And so, if you need to do this,
and again, now, to be clear,
if the problem with using the context
API was we lost all those,
the rerendering support.
Well, we got it back, and the cost
of getting it back was complexity.
We did just hide the complexity
in one place, right?
I don't know, like,
look at the React source code.
There is complexity lying around,
and it was just hidden from you,
you didn't have a problem
with until you saw it, right?
So here's the thing that you can do.
And again, it's all sort of trade offs.
Now this is a thing that you own,
[LAUGH] right?
And so, yeah, that is there as well,
and a thing to consider.
Was one question here.
Okay, can I show the profiler now?
Yes, I can.
And then there was another question.
Let's look at the profiler.
Let's do some recording.
And we'll move some things.
And then, I keep right clicking for
some reason.
So you can see that
they are not rendering.
These extra stacks are my new providers,
which are in existence, right, totally.
But you can see that the kinda
core piece here is fine, right?
And less than 0.1 ms,
0.1 ms, I am okay with that,
[LAUGH] right?
It's not like stop renders at all costs,
right?
It is about making sure that you
don't have more than you need.
Sure, but
I gained not having to pass stuff through.
I can probably take the React.memo
off of the items list now.
Since it's only ever getting
the items which are changing,
it's not getting needless
things pass through it anymore.
So yeah, I got some contexts
now that are rerendering.
Sure, seems good, I'm into it, right?
And so I think that that works, okay.
One glance to the chat real quick.
So a question on your question that
you've passed children to component,
the children calculated first.
How would they be able to access context
values when they're getting calculated
before the context provider?
Do they fall back to
the default context values?
I mean, they get updated, right?
There's the very first time where
they might get the first value.
But they will quickly,
when those state changes happen,
they are hooking into that prop.
It is like they are reading from it at
that time, and getting those updates.
Cuz that is, again, it's that secret prop
thing where it is a prop is passed to all
of them through this API that runs kind
of aside the normal hierarchy tree.
That's why the context API exists, right?
It's to kinda give us that thread that
it binds all components together.
It's like the Force, but for
components, and triggers rerenders,
that's not what the Force does.
But it will then, those things
are what triggers those updates and
renders from that,
cuz it counts as a prop.
And so, it being its own special API
does have some special rules around it.
Another question, do we need to put the
provider with a context that won't change
over provider with the context that will,
and why?
So I don't really know.
So it was one of the things I
was thinking about, which is,
it is a thing that I did the very
first time cuz I have always done it.
So the question is, I said, put the one
that doesn't change outside first, right?
But then I was thinking about that chat
we just had about children get pulled up.
I was like, have I just been doing
that for the last several years?
Because I thought it in the year 2018 and
have just done it every time.
The order might not matter
as much as I thought,
as I was saying those words the very
first time out loud to people.
Because yeah, we talked about the content
gets pulled up and they might render.
But it's definitely worth
the experimentation.